Title
Assignment 2025-26 (PT)
Description
Introduction
Submit a report (pdf or a clean notebook) for the following machine learning projects. Explain briefly in the report the architectures that you used, how they were trained, tuned, etc. Describe challenges and problems and how they were addressed. Present in the report your experimental results and demos (e.g., screenshots) showing how your code works. Do not include code in the report, but include a link to a shared folder or repository (e.g. in Dropbox, GitHub, Bitbucket) containing your code.

 

Part 1: Image classification (40%)
Given an image, build a deep learning model that classifies the image to a class from a set of given classes. You must use at least 2 different architectures, one with MLPs and one with CNNs. You will use two datasets:

Fashion-MNIST, which contains images of fashion items. More information about the task and the dataset can be found at https://github.com/zalandoresearch/fashion-mnist.

CIFAR-10, which contains photorealistic images of a single object each, e.g., airplane, automobile, cat, etc.

Both datasets are also available from Tensorflow under the tensorflow.keras.datasets package.

 

Part 2 (60%)
Option 1: X-Ray classification
Given a study containing X-ray images, build a deep learning model that decides if the study is normal or abnormal. You must use at least 2 different architectures, one with your own CNN model (e.g., you can use a model similar to the CNN of the previous project) and one with a popular pre-trained CNN or ViT model. Use the MURA dataset to train and evaluate your models. More information about the task and the dataset can be found at https://stanfordmlgroup.github.io/competitions/mura/. To download the dataset you must fill out a form, so complete this action as soon as possible.

 

Option 2: Open task
Find a machine learning task that excites you and build a deep learning model that tries to solve it. You may choose a task of any modality you want, e.g., text, image, sound, etc. You must use at least 2 different architectures, one with your own Deep Learning model and one that uses transfer learning. You can find potential tasks at https://paperswithcode.com/datasets. Note, that the choice and difficulty of the task will affect the grade.